Adding premade custom widgets section (#171)
gristlabs/grist-help: help/widget-custom.md

<span class="screenshot-large">*![copy-to-clipboard](images/widget-custom/copy-to-clipboard.png)*</span>

Note that you can also copy data from a selected cell by using the keyboard shortcut <code class="keys">*Ctrl* + *C*</code> on Windows or <code class="keys">*⌘* + *C*</code> on Mac. To paste, use <code class="keys">*Ctrl* + *V*</code> or <code class="keys">*⌘* + *V*</code>.

You can find an example of the copy to clipboard button in our [Webinar 7 (Custom Widgets)](https://public.getgrist.com/uGS3WH3mhoVy/7-Webinar-7-Custom-Widgets-End-Result/p/4){:target="\_blank"} template. You can also watch a video walkthrough from our [Custom Widgets Webinar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNLHX_ezY50&t=2063s){:target="\_blank"}.

### Dropbox Embedder

View and access files saved to dropbox. 

<span class="screenshot-large">*![dropbox-embedder-widget](images/widget-custom/dropbox-embedder-widget.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

To start, add a new column to your table to store your dropbox links. 

Then, add a new custom widget to the page. Choose the data table that contains the dropbox links and 'Select By' that same table.

> <span class="screenshot-large">*![dropbox-add-widget](images/widget-custom/dropbox-add-widget.png)*</span>

Reviewer: This image is very compressed and hard to see. Could you try a different size?

{: .screenshot-half }

To configure, select 'Dropbox Embedder' from the Custom dropdown and allow access to read the selected table. Under 'Dropbox Link', select the column that contains your dropbox links.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![dropbox-embedder-configuration](images/widget-custom/dropbox-embedder-configuration.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

> You can create links to folders or specific files in Dropbox. Click 'Share' then set permissions for the link. You can choose to allow anyone with the link to view or edit. Create, then copy the link. Paste this link into your Dropbox Link column in Grist.

Reviewer: If someone sets the dropbox link to edit permission, can editing be done within Grist's dropbox embedder widget? Might want to be clear about that somewhere in this section regarding what's possible.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![dropbox-embedder-create-link](images/widget-custom/dropbox-embedder-create-link.png)*</span>

You can check out an example of the Dropbox Embedder in our [Hurricane Preparedness](https://templates.getgrist.com/uXMbETLdfriM/Hurricane-Preparedness){:target="\_blank"} template.

> <span class="screenshot-large">*![dropbox-embedder](images/widget-custom/dropbox-embedder.png)*</span>

Reviewer: Image is hard to see. Maybe resize and crop to show just the widget and relevant selector table? Don't need to see the creator panel again.

If this happens, you'll need to take the URL from the Embed code.

After clicking the share option on the video, click the option to 'Embed'.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![video-facebook-embed](images/widget-custom/video-facebook-embed.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

Then, click to copy the code.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![video-facebook-embed-2](images/widget-custom/video-facebook-embed-2.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

The code it gives you will look something like this:

<span class="screenshot-large">*![video-facebook-embed-code](images/widget-custom/video-facebook-embed-code.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

Copy the URL that is found between quotes following `src`. The highlighted portion in the screenshot below is what you would copy for this particular Facebook video. 

<span class="screenshot-large">*![video-facebook-embed-src](images/widget-custom/video-facebook-embed-src.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

Paste this URL into your URL column in Grist and the video will now appear in the Grist Video Player custom widget.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![video-player-embed](images/widget-custom/video-player-embed.png)*</span>

### HTML Viewer

> The HTML Viewer allows you to format text using HTML while displaying the formatted text in a read-only widget.

Reviewer: Is it limited to just formatting text or could you do more with HTML in the cell? 

> The HTML viewer displays HTML written in a cell.

> For other text-editing widgets, check out our [Markdown](#markdown) and [Notepad](#notepad) custom widgets.

Reviewer: If you go with the change in my previous comment, this can just be 

> For text-editing widgets, check out...

> <span class="screenshot-large">*![html-viewer](images/widget-custom/html-viewer.png)*</span>

Reviewer: A bit blurry. Cropping and resizing might help.

> To start, add a new column to your table. This will be where you add your text with HTML formatting. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To start, add a new column to your table. This will be where you write HTML. 
```

> Then, add a new custom widget to the page. Choose the data table that contains the HTML formatting and 'Select By' that same table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, add a new custom widget to the page. Choose the data table that contains the HTML and 'Select By' that same table.
```

<span class="screenshot-large">*![html-viewer-add-widget](images/widget-custom/html-viewer-add-widget.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

> To configure, select 'HTML Viewer' from the Custom dropdown and allow access to read the selected table. Under 'HTML', select the text column that HTML formatting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure, select 'HTML Viewer' from the Custom dropdown and allow access to read the selected table. Under 'HTML', select the text column that contains your HTML.
```

<span class="screenshot-large">*![html-viewer-configuration](images/widget-custom/html-viewer-configuration.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

> Any HTML formatting in the specified text column will apply and be viewable in the custom widget.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Consider cutting since this isn't just about text formatting.

> <span class="screenshot-large">*![html-viewer-final-example](images/widget-custom/html-viewer-final-example.png)*</span>

Reviewer: Hard to see image. Also, I noticed you're using `<span class="screenshot-large">`. How does it look without it? I don't always get great results with that code.

For help on HTML formatting, check out this guide from W3 Schools: [HTML Text Formatting](https://www.w3schools.com/html/html_formatting.asp){:target="\_blank"}

You can find an example of the HTML Viewer in our [Webinar 7 (Custom Widgets)](https://public.getgrist.com/uGS3WH3mhoVy/7-Webinar-7-Custom-Widgets-End-Result/p/1){:target="\_blank"} template. You can also watch a video walkthrough from our [Custom Widgets Webinar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNLHX_ezY50&t=1538s){:target="\_blank"}.

### Image Viewer

> Embed images from online sources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
View images from URL.
```

Maybe a little clearer on the behavior.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![image-viewer](images/widget-custom/image-viewer.png)*</span>

To start, add a new column to your table. This will be where you add the URL for your image. 

Then, add a new custom widget to the page. Choose the data table that contains the image URL and 'Select By' that same table.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![image-viewer-add-widget](images/widget-custom/image-viewer-add-widget.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

To configure, select 'Image Viewer' from the Custom dropdown and allow access to read the selected table. Under 'Image URL', select the column that contains the URLs for your images.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![image-viewer-configuration](images/widget-custom/image-viewer-configuration.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

To copy the URL for an image, right click on the photo then 'Copy image address'. This copies the URL to your clipboard. Paste this URL into your specified column in Grist.

> <span class="screenshot-large">*![image-viewer-save-image](images/widget-custom/image-viewer-save-image.png)*</span>

Reviewer: Seems over compressed and small. Crop/resize/remove `<span class="screenshot-large">` and see what happens? If too large, try 

`*![image-viewer-configuration](images/widget-custom/image-viewer-configuration.png)*`
`{: .screenshot-half }`

{: .screenshot-half }

For an example of the Image Viewer widget, check out our [U.S. National Park Database](https://templates.getgrist.com/4TRbjZXSPtR5/US-National-Park-Database/p/4){:target="\_blank"}, and add a park review while you're there!

You can also check out our [Meme Generator](https://templates.getgrist.com/gtzQwTXkgzFG/Meme-Generator){:target="\_blank"} template for another great example.

For a video walkthrough, be sure to watch our [Custom Widgets Webinar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNLHX_ezY50&t=559s){:target="\_blank"}!

### Map

> The custom map widget allows you to display locations using lat-long coordinates. If your data is an address, rather than in lat-long format, Grist can convert the address into lat-long coordinates. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The custom map widget allows you to display locations using latitude and longitude coordinates. If your data is an address, rather than in lat-long format, Grist can convert the address into lat-long coordinates. 
```

{: .screenshot-half }

If using an address, you will need six columns; Name, Address, Geocode, Longitude, Latitude, and Geocoded Address.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![map-address-columns](images/widget-custom/map-address-columns.png)*</span>

Geocode is a [toggle type column](col-types.md#toggle-columns) that should be set to true for any record you wish to convert from address to lat-long coordinates to be shown on the map.

If you wish to convert all records, you can make Geocode a formula column with the formula = `True`. This will mark all records as True.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![map-geocode-true](images/widget-custom/map-geocode-true.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

Next, add a new custom widget to the page. Choose the data table that contains the addresses or lat-long coordinates and 'Select By' that same table.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![map-add-widget](images/widget-custom/map-add-widget.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

To configure, select 'Map' from the Custom dropdown. 

If you already have **lat-long coordinates**, you can set your access level to *Read selected table*. 

> If you are using an **address** and wishing for Grist to convert the address to lat-long coordinates, you will need to set your access level to *Full document access* because the widget needs permission to write to your document in order to add lat-long coordinates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are using an **address** that needs to be converted into lat-long coordinates, you will need to set your access level to *Full document access* because the widget needs permission to write to your document in order to add lat-long coordinates.
```

<span class="screenshot-large">*![map-configuration-1](images/widget-custom/map-configuration-1.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

Map all required columns. Note that Name, Longitude and Latitude are labeled as required. Geocode, Address and Geocoded Address are listed as optional. If you are using addresses and need Grist to convert these to lat-long coordinates, you must map all six columns.

> <span class="screenshot-large">*![map-configuration-2](images/widget-custom/map-configuration-2.png)*</span>

Reviewer: Same as my over image comments. I know it's tricky! :)

{: .screenshot-half }

After mapping the necessary columns and selecting the appropriate Access Level, the map widget will populate. 

<span class="screenshot-large">*![map-final](images/widget-custom/map-final.png)*</span>

> You can configure the map to show only the selected location by clicking the 'Open Configuration' option in the Custom Widget Configuration panel on the right-hand side. Then, uncheck 'All Locations'. Click the green check mark at the top of the widget to save the updated configuration settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the map to show only the selected location by clicking the 'Open Configuration' option in the [creator panel](../glossary.md#creator-panel). Then, uncheck 'All Locations'. Click the green check mark at the top of the widget to save the updated configuration settings.
```

To edit the text directly in the widget, click the edit icon. The text will revert to display Markdown syntax that can be edited directly in the widget. When in edit mode, the edit icon will be replaced with the save icon. Be sure to click the save icon to save any changes and return to viewing the formatted text.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![markdown-edit](images/widget-custom/markdown-edit.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

For help on Markdown formatting, check out the [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/){:target="\_blank"} for basic syntax. This guide is also accessible in the Markdown widget by clicking the information icon at the top of the widget. The guide will open in a new tab of your browser for easy reference.

You can find an example of the Markdown editor in our [Webinar 7 (Custom Widgets)](https://public.getgrist.com/uGS3WH3mhoVy/7-Webinar-7-Custom-Widgets-End-Result){:target="\_blank"} template and check out this video walkthrough from our [Custom Widgets Webinar](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNLHX_ezY50&t=1339s){:target="\_blank"}.

### Notepad

> The Notepad custom widget allows you to format text using a WYSIWYG editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Notepad custom widget allows you to format text using a rich text editor.
```

For other text-editing widgets, check out our [HTML](#html-viewer) and [Markdown](#markdown) custom widgets.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![notepad-widget](images/widget-custom/notepad-widget.png)*</span>

To start, add a new column to your table. This will be where details for our formatted text will be stored. 

Then, add a new custom widget to the page. Choose the data table that contains the column we just added and 'Select By' that same table.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![notepad-add-widget](images/widget-custom/notepad-add-widget.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

To configure, select 'Notepad' from the Custom dropdown and allow **Full document access**. Because the widget is also an editor, it needs permission to write to the document.

Under 'Content', select the column created to store our formatted text.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![notepad-configuration](images/widget-custom/notepad-configuration.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

If the text column you chose under Content has existing text, that text will appear in the Notepad widget, ready to be formatted.

> <span class="screenshot-large">*![notepad-saved-text](images/widget-custom/notepad-saved-text.png)*</span>

Reviewer: Resize/crop, or maybe remove altogether.

To start, add a new column to your table. This column will contain the text for the label. Optionally, you can add a second column to specify a label count, allowing you to print more than one of the same label without having to create duplicate records.

Next, add a new custom widget to the page. Choose the data table that contains the label details.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![print-label-add-widget](images/widget-custom/print-label-add-widget.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

To configure, select 'Print Labels' from the Custom dropdown and allow access to read the selected table. Under 'Label', select the column that contains the text to include on the labels. If you wish to print more than one of any labels, select the column that contains the number of labels for each record you wish to print.

<span class="screenshot-large">*![print-label-configuration](images/widget-custom/print-label-configuration.png)*</span>
{: .screenshot-half }

You can select from standard sheet sizes under the dropdown in the upper left of the widget. Be sure to save any changes by clicking the green check mark at the upper right of the widget.

> <span class="screenshot-large">*![print-label-sheet-configuration](images/widget-custom/print-label-sheet-configuration.png)*</span>

Reviewer: Maybe crop to focus more on the configuration and see the text in a larger font size.
